384
The Canadian Field-Naturalist
Vol. 93
Table 5 — Frequencies of smartweed species along banks of
the Thames River, Middlesex County, Ontario
Species
Frequency (%)'
Polygonum lapathifolium
Polygonum pensylvanicum
Polygonum persicaria
Poilygonum sea brum
49
22
10
Each value is significantly different from each other value
(P<0.05).
indicating that the values were different from each
other. It is of interest that P. persicaria, the common-
est species in cropland and disturbed sites (habitat and
soil survey), was the rarest of the three riverbank
species. Polygonum pensylvanicum, which was absent
from the previous survey, was common on riverbanks.
Polygonum scabrum was absent from riverbank sites,
as it was from the habitats examined in the previous
survey.
Summary
The distributions and habitats of the four smart-
weeds based on our herbarium studies and field
surveys, are summarized in Table 6.
Polygonum lapathifolium has long been associated
with man's agricultural activities (Bertsch 1954) and
with man's assistance has increased its range to most
temperate parts of the world. It is probably not
sufficiently abundant in the croplands of southern
Ontario to be rated as a serious weed in that region. It
is more usually found in wet and naturally disturbed
sites, such as riverbanks, lakeshores, and exposed
mud. It may be abundant in these habitats even at
locations well away from farmland, e.g., in northern
Ontario. When found as a weed, it is usually
associated with damp, disturbed substrates, i.e.,
conditions very similar to those of the riverbank. Of
the two common Ontario varieties, variety salicifol-
ium is considered to be native but variety lapathi-
folium is believed to be partly introduced (Scoggan
1978). It is not known, however, whether the
introduced element of this variety is the weedy
component.
The range of the native species Polygonum pensyl-
vanicum is more or less restricted to eastern North
America, extending northwards to the Sudbury
district of Ontario (for map, see Staniforth 1975). It is
a serious agricultural weed throughout its range in the
United States, but in Canada it is mostly restricted to
riverbanks and lakeshores. When found as a weed in
Ontario (locally in Kent, Essex, and Elgin counties),
it is associated with crops grown on sandy soils
(especially corn and tobacco). One may speculate that
its northern distribution is correlated with locations
offering a mild climate and light warm soils, such as
those of riverbanks, beaches, and sandy farmland.
Varieties laevigatum and pensylvanicum are both
common in the province.
Polygonum persicaria, like P. lapathifolium, has
long been associated with man's agricultural activi-
ties. It has become successfully established in North
America from Eurasia. In Ontario, it is more
restricted to agricultural and man-disturbed habitats
than are the two species discussed above. It does occur
in isolated farming regions such as the clay belt and
the small farmed clay pockets of northern Ontario.
Polygonum persicaria is associated particularly with
damp, clay soils in Ontario, especially those which
support crops of small-grained cereals, e.g., oats,
barley, rye, and wheat.
Polygonum scabrum was originally introduced
from Eurasia. It has become widely distributed in
Canada and is now found in all provinces and in the
Northwest Territories (Scoggan 1978). In Ontario, it
is widespread and locally common on damp clay and
loam soils of disturbed substrates, including cropland.
Table 6 — Summary of the distributions and habitats of four annual smartweeds in Ontario
Species
Distribution,
relative abundance
Principal
soil type
Principal
habitats
Polygonum lapathifolium
Polygonum pensylvanicum
Polygonum persicaria
Polygonum scabrum
Throughout Ontario;
common
Southern Ontario;
locally common
All cultivated parts of the
province; common
Damp clays and loams
Well-drained loams,
sands, and gravels
Damp clays and loams
Throughout Ontario; local Damp clays and loams
Riverbanks, lakeshores,
sometimes farmland and
waste places
Riverbanks, lakeshores,
locally in crops
Wasteland, cuUivated land
(cereal crops), occasionally
riverbanks
Wasteland, cultivated land,
occasionally riverbanks 
