luu 
TllH LITHRARV DIGEST 
[August 9, 1902 
it to France, aud Russia, if only as the niotlier country of Tui- 
geuert', must surely staHil among the highest. But. leaving for- 
eign literature on one sule. we must acknowledge that this is the 
department of the literature of the English tongue in which our 
native writers of recent years have unquestionably been sur- 
passed by their brethren across the Atlantic. It would be hard 
to name four Englishmen who, as writers of short stories in the 
Victorian era. are at all equal to Hawthorne and Poe. Bret Ilarte 
aud Mr. Ilcnry James. All four of these are entirely individual 
and have few. if any. points in common except this, that, while 
truly original, their work is in consonance with the best tradi- 
tions of English style. Hawthorne and Poe, besides their actual 
achievements in writing, are also what has been called 'semi- 
nal' authors in a high degree; their influence has lived and 
spread and has affected for good the work of many who have 
hardly heard their names, or. at any rate, come unconsciously 
beneath their influence." 
Henry Seidel Canby contributes to the series of pamphlets 
entitled "Yale Studies in English " a dissertation on "The Short 
Story." He accounts for the artistic excellence of the short- 
story very simply : 
"In simple truth, the short story has attained a wonderful per- 
fection because wonderful men have worked with and through 
it. It has just come into its own. In the England of the 30's, 
publishers would not look upon anything less than a volume in 
fiction as a serious literary efTort— and they preferred three vol- 
umes. It was only in the first half of the last century that Ir- 
ving, Hawthorne, and Poe in America began the cult of the tale. 
Copp^e's search for the inevitable word, and Maupassant's re- 
finement of the conte, came later still. The short story was 
adapted to the needs of the time and the tastes of the people. 
Men of genius found through it a new voice, and the attempt to 
perfect, to give laws and a form to the instrument, progressed 
because of the men who tried. In pre-Hawtliornian times these 
authors employed the tale for the by-products of their minds; 
since then it has served to express some of the great conceptions 
of their genius. It is this which best accounts for the chasten- 
ing of its form." 
Mr. Bliss Perry, the editor of The Atlantic Motithly, and him- 
self a skilful writer of short stories, writes most interestingly on 
"The Short Story" in the current issue of his magazine. He 
thinks that Rudyard Kipling is "indubitably the most gifted 
story-teller of our time"; and yet "one might almost maintain 
that there is more of an answer, implicit or explicit, to the great 
problems of human destiny in one book like ' Vanity Fair ' or 
'Adam Bede ' than in all of Mr. Kipling's one hundred and 
sixty short stories taken together." He writes further: 
"The important thing, the really suggestive and touching aud 
wonderful thing, is that all these thousands of contemporary and 
ephemeral stories are laughed over and cried over and waited 
for by somebody. They are read, while the 'large still books' 
are bound in full calf and buried. Do you remember Pomona in 
Rudder Grange reading aloud in the kitchen every night after she 
had washed the dishes, spelling out with blundering tongue and 
beating heart: ' Yell — after — yell — resounded — as — he — wildly 
— sprang' — Or 'Ha — ha — Lord — Marmont — thundered — thou — 
too — shalt — suffer ' ? We are all more or less like Pomona. We 
are children at bottom, after all is said, children under the story- 
teller's charm. Hansen's stout-hearted comrades tell stories to 
one another while the Arctic ice drifts onward with the Fram ; 
Stevenson is nicknamed 'The Tale-Teller ' by the brown-limbed 
Samoans ; Chinese Gordon reads a story w'hile waiting — hope- 
lessly waiting — at Khartoum. What matter who performs the 
miracle that opens for us the doors of the wonder-world? It may 
be one of that white-bearded company at the gate of Jaffa ; it may 
be an ardent French boy pouring out his heart along the bottom 
of a Paris newspaper ; it may be some sober-suited New E'ngland 
woman in the decorous pages of The At /antic Monthly ; it may 
be some wretched scribbler writing for his supper. No matter, 
if only the miracle is wrought ; if we look out with new eyes 
upon the many-featured, habitable world; if we are thrilled by 
the pity and the beauty of this life of ours, itself brief as a tale 
that is told ; if we learn to know men aud women better, and to 
love them more." 
ART AND ATHLETICS. 
IT has been noted that the artist in his search for models is 
rarely able to reproduce the human figure entire, according 
to his ideal, from a single Jiving example. Our pictures and 
sculptures are mostly composites, made by combining the differ- 
ent excellencies of .several models. In Outing (July) Mr. R. 
Hinton Perry makes some rather happy observations upon "The 
Relation of Athletics to Art," urging harmonious physical train- 
ing as a means of producing artistic symmetry in the modern 
human body. He says : 
"It would be difficult to overestimate art's dependence on the 
proper physical development of the race. By physical develop- 
ment I do not refer to mere muscular strength, but to that sym- 
metrical, healthy, and harmonious activity of all parts of the 
body which constitutes the artistic as it does, or should, the nat- 
ural and normal birthright of every human being. It is a state 
of mental and physical equipoise. Training for the acquirement 
of excessive muscular strength, or phenomenal power of endur. 
ance, does not produce this result, for the reason that it is a form 
of excess and tends toward the abnormal. It is. therefore, inar- 
tistic and unbeautiful in its result, nor is it conducive to health 
or longevity ; while, on the other hand, the system that seeks 
to develop every muscle of the body in due proi^ortion, which 
seeks after suppleness and symmetry rather than extraordinary 
strength, is one that commends itself to the artist, for in it alone 
lies the secret of physical beauty. Such beauty we see in the 
Narcissus, an exquisite bronze statuette found among the ruins 
of Pompeii, and now in the museum of Naples. As an example 
of such beauty in the female form nothing can surpass that work 
of Cleomenes generally known as the Venus de Medici. To ac- 
quire and maintain this, so far as possible, is the manifest duty 
of all, not only for the sake of their own health and happiness, 
but for that of their children, who are the heirs of their bodies." 
The example of Greek training points the way for us to follow : 
" It would be impossible to treat intelligently of art and athletic 
culture without taking a look at the past, and especially their 
relations to each other in ancient Greece. One can not help con- 
trasting the conditions of life then with our own, noting how bal- 
anced and harmonious was all that they produced— how inti- 
mately related, one to the other, was their art in its various 
forms, and their daily life — their system of mental training and 
their physical training — how one was kept in such just relation- 
ship to the other, neither being given undue place ; and then 
noticing how different it is with us, ever prone to violent ex 
tremes, excess, and universal unrest. Our tendency seems ever 
to rush too much either in one direction or the other, athletic cul- 
ture at the expense of intellectual, or vice versa. 
" And in art it is much the same. We go in for extreme effects, 
for violence. This is especially noticeable in that modern center 
of artistic effort, Paris. There all these tendencies of our life are 
focused, and are seen in their greatest intensity. This is stri. 
kingly manifest in comj^aring modern French sculpture, the 
dominant school of our day, with the antique. The modern ig 
full of a nervous unrest which is liable to border on the gro- 
tesque. It is constantly seeking after bizarre and striking 
effects. 
"But to return to ancient Greece. It is safe to say that Greek 
sculpture woirld never have achieved the high plane of excel- 
lence that it did had not the Greek people, as a mass, been en- 
dowed with an enthusiastic woi-ship of beauty as expressed in 
the human form, very nearly making it a religion. Their sculp- 
ture was but the efflorescence of this deep and universal senti- 
ment." 
In the reproduction of the human form,. Rome left no art save 
that which she borrowed from the Greeks, because her athletic 
training was purel}' for military ends ; while the Renaissance 
did not revive the Greek appreciation of the human form. But 
this writer says : 
"There is a widespread tendency observable nowadays toward 
a healthier view of life — a return to a freer and more natural con- 
ception of its functions — a breaking away from the lingering 
effects of that medieval asceticism that was born of Rome's 
decay; a return to something like the antique viewpoint, with
